---
layout: single
title: Quick Update
---
I haven&#39;t posted in a while, so I just wanted to give a quick update on what I&#39;m doing. I&#39;ve been pretty busy with school (lots of exams and projects) which has put me behind on my Illumination Code Review. Right now, it&#39;s not looking like I am going to have time to finish it for a while, and frankly, I&#39;m not sure if I ever will. As I have pointed out previously, the code is very tightly coupled and messy. This makes reviewing it very time consuming and it limits the value of doing the code review at all. I am not sure there is much more I can get out of the code review. At this point, I think part 1 is the only part that really matters. With that in mind, I have decided to cancel the remaining posts regarding the code review. I may start a new code review on another project I worked on previously (there are some android projects on my bitbucket that might be worthwhile), but for now I am going to focus on development updates for my current projects.

As far as my current projects are concerned, the main thing I&#39;m working on right now is my [new rendering engine](https://github.com/Spaceman1701/RenderingEngine). On Monday I gave a little presentation of it for a class, and the code I wrote for the demo is still sitting in the repository. Otherwise, the engine is coming along nicely. For the next 2 weeks I will be focusing on [my CSCI 1310 project](https://github.com/Spaceman1701/CSCIGameProject). The assignment is to create a game. I&#39;ll be using C++ and I am targeting Linux. In order to test the project I am using virtual box with an Ubuntu image the university provided me. While I was originally planning to use Code::Blocks as an IDE, but I found it very buggy (it crashed every few minutes whenever a large file was open). I also tried Eclipse, but it had some odd visual bugs on the VM which made it somewhat frustrating to use. I was just about to give up and use Notepad++ for the project when I stumbled upon [an article](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/vcblog/2016/03/30/visual-c-for-linux-development/) about remote debugging on Linux from Visual Studio using SSH. I decided to try it out, and with a little bit of trouble shooting (I&#39;m still learning how to use Linux) I was able to get it up and running. This allows me to write the code in Visual Studio on my desktop (and benefit from all of Visual Studio&#39;s excellent features for C++ programming) and then test the code with one click on the VM. So far it&#39;s been working great.

Anyway, after I am done with my project, I will likely write a post detailing its design. After that I will try to do regular development update posts on the rendering engine.
